    "abstract": "There is a pressing need to identify biological indicators of major depression to help guide proper diagnosis and optimize treatment. Animal models mimicking aspects of depression constitute essential tools for early-stage exploration of relevant pathways. In this study, we used the Flinders Sensitive and Resistant Line (FSL/FRL) to explore central and peripheral transcriptional changes in vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway genes and their temporal regulation after a single dose of S-ketamine (15\u00a0mg/kg). We found that S-ketamine induced both rapid (1\u00a0hour) and sustained (2 and 14 days) antidepressant-like effects in the FSL rats. Analysis of mRNA expression revealed significant strain effects of Vegf, Vegf164, Vegfr-1, Nrp1, Nrp2, Rictor, and Raptor in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and of Vegf164, GbetaL, and Tsc1 in the hippocampus (HIP), which indicates suppression of VEGF signaling in the FSL rats compared to FRL rats. This notion was further substantiated by reduced expression of Vegf and Mtor in plasma from FSL rats. In the brain, S-ketamine induced transcriptional changes in the acute phase, not the sustained phase. There were significant treatment effects of S-ketamine on Vegfr-2 in both PFC and HIP and on Vegf and Vegfr-1 in HIP. Moreover, we found that S-ketamine specifically restored reduced levels of Nrp2 and Mtor in the PFC of the FSL rats. In conclusion, this study substantiates the use of the FRL/FSL rats to explore the depressive-like behavior at the transcriptional level of the VEGF pathway genes and study their regulation in response to various treatment paradigms.",

    "abstract": "Integrin \u03b26 (ITGB6), an epithelial-specific receptor, is downregulated in the gingival epithelium of periodontitis and is associated with inflammation response and periodontitis development. However, the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of ITGB6 downregulation in the human gingival epithelium remains unclear. Fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide-1 (FSL-1), an oral biofilm component, promotes an epithelial cell-driven proinflammatory response in periodontitis partially by suppressing ITGB6 expression. The aim of the current study was to investigate the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of ITGB6 inhibition by FSL-1 in human epithelial cells (HaCaT and primary human gingival epithelial cells), and to delineate the transcriptional mechanism of ITGB6 suppression in periodontitis. We found that FSL-1 inhibited ITGB6 transcription through increasing forkhead box protein O1 (FOXO1) expression and inhibiting signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation. Furthermore, FOXO1 bound to STAT3 directly, leading to decreased STAT3 phosphorylation induced by FSL-1. Consequently, the binding of phosphorylated STAT3 to the ITGB6 promoter was decreased, and ITGB6 transcription was therefore downregulated following FSL-1 stimulation. The reciprocal action of STAT3 and FOXO1 on ITGB6 downregulation was also confirmed by the immunostaining of the inflammatory epithelium associated with periodontitis. Our findings suggest that the interaction of FOXO1-STAT3 may be a useful signal target for the treatment of periodontitis.",

    "abstract": "Exposure of Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats to post-weaning social isolation rearing (SIR) causes depressive- and social anxiety-like symptoms resistant to, or worsened by, fluoxetine. SIR typically presents with psychotic-like symptoms, while the paradoxical response to fluoxetine suggests unaddressed psychotic-like manifestations. Psychotic depression (MDpsy) is invariably treatment resistant. To further explore the mood-psychosis continuum in fluoxetine resistant FSL-SIR rats (Mncube et al., 2021), mood-, psychotic-, anxiety-, and social-related behaviour and biomarker response to antidepressant/antipsychotic treatment was studied in FSL-SIR rats. Methods: Sprague Dawley (SD) and FSL pups were subjected to social rearing or SIR from postnatal day (PND) 21. Thereafter FSL-SIR rats received olanzapine (5\u00a0mg/kg x 14 days) or olanzapine+fluoxetine (OLZ+FLX; 5\u00a0mg/kg + 10\u00a0mg/kg for 14 days) from PND 63. Psychotic-like, depressive, anxiety, and social behaviour were assessed from PND 72, versus saline-treated FSL-SIR rats, using the prepulse inhibition (PPI), forced swim, open field and social interaction tests. Post-mortem cortico-hippocampal norepinephrine (NE), serotonin (5-HT), and dopamine (DA), as well as plasma corticosterone and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase levels were evaluated. Results: SD-SIR and FSL-SIR rats present with significant depressive-like behaviour (\nSIR-exposed FSL rats display worsened anxiety, as well as depressive and psychotic-like symptoms, variably responsive to olanzapine or OLZ+FLX. Depleted monoamines are reversed by OLZ+FLX, less so by olanzapine. FSL-SIR rats show promising face and construct but limited predictive validity for MDpsy, perhaps more relevant for bipolar disorder.",

    "abstract": "Developing accurate subcortical volumetric quantification tools is crucial for neurodevelopmental studies, as they could reduce the need for challenging and time-consuming manual segmentation. In this study, the accuracy of two automated segmentation tools, FSL-FIRST (with three different boundary correction settings) and FreeSurfer, were compared against manual segmentation of the hippocampus and subcortical nuclei, including the amygdala, thalamus, putamen, globus pallidus, caudate and nucleus accumbens, using volumetric and correlation analyses in 80 5-year-olds. Both FSL-FIRST and FreeSurfer overestimated the volume on all structures except the caudate, and the accuracy varied depending on the structure. Small structures such as the amygdala and nucleus accumbens, which are visually difficult to distinguish, produced significant overestimations and weaker correlations with all automated methods. Larger and more readily distinguishable structures such as the caudate and putamen produced notably lower overestimations and stronger correlations. Overall, the segmentations performed by FSL-FIRST's default pipeline were the most accurate, whereas FreeSurfer's results were weaker across the structures. In line with prior studies, the accuracy of automated segmentation tools was imperfect with respect to manually defined structures. However, apart from amygdala and nucleus accumbens, FSL-FIRST's agreement could be considered satisfactory (Pearson correlation\u2009>\u20090.74, intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC)\u2009>\u20090.68 and Dice score coefficient (DSC)\u2009>\u20090.87) with highest values for the striatal structures (putamen, globus pallidus, caudate) (Pearson correlation\u2009>\u20090.77, ICC\u2009>\u20090.87 and DSC\u2009>\u20090.88, respectively). Overall, automated segmentation tools do not always provide satisfactory results, and careful visual inspection of the automated segmentations is strongly advised.",

    "abstract": "FSL's FMRIB's Integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool (FSL-FIRST) is a widely used and well-validated tool. Automated thalamic segmentation is a common application and an important longitudinal measure for multiple sclerosis (MS). However, FSL-FIRST's algorithm is based on shape models derived from non-MS groups. As such, the present study sought to systematically assess common thalamic segmentation errors made by FSL-FIRST on MRIs from people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS).\nFSL-FIRST was applied to generate thalamic segmentation masks for 890 MR images in PwMS. Images and masks were reviewed systematically to classify and quantify errors, as well as associated anatomical variations and MRI abnormalities. For cases with overt errors (n = 362), thalamic masks were corrected and quantitative volumetric differences were calculated.\nIn the entire quantitative volumetric group, the mean volumetric error of FSL-FIRST was 2.74% (0.360 ml): among only corrected cases, the mean volumetric error was 6.79% (0.894 ml). The average percent volumetric error associated with seven error types, two anatomical variants, and motions artifacts are reported. Additional analyses showed that the presence of motion artifacts or anatomical variations significantly increased the probability of error (\u03c7\nIn PwMS, FSL-FIRST thalamic segmentation miscalculates thalamic volumetry in a predictable fashion, and may be biased to overestimate highly atrophic thalami. As such, it is recommended that segmentations be reviewed and corrected manually when appropriate for specific studies.",

    "abstract": "As a novel lactate-derived post-translational modification (PTM), lysine lactylation (Kla) is involved in diverse biological processes, and participates in human tumorigenesis. Identification of Kla substrates with their exact sites is crucial for revealing the molecular mechanisms of lactylation. In contrast with labor-intensive and time-consuming experimental approaches, computational prediction of Kla could provide convenience and increased speed, but is still lacking. In this work, although current identified Kla sites are limited, we constructed the first Kla benchmark dataset and developed a few-shot learning-based architecture approach to leverage the power of small datasets and reduce the impact of imbalance and overfitting. A maximum 11.7% (0.745 versus 0.667) increase of area under the curve (AUC) value was achieved in contrast to conventional machine learning methods. We conducted a comprehensive survey of the performance by combining 8 sequence-based features and 3 structure-based features and tailored a multi-feature hybrid system for synergistic combination. This system achieved >16.2% improvement of the AUC value (0.889 versus 0.765) compared with single feature-based models for the prediction of Kla sites ",

    "abstract": "",

    "abstract": "We introduce FSL-MRS, an end-to-end, modular, open-source MRS analysis toolbox. It provides spectroscopic data conversion, preprocessing, spectral simulation, fitting, quantitation, and visualization.\nThe FSL-MRS package is modular. Its programs operate on data in a standard format (Neuroimaging Informatics Technology Initiative [NIfTI]) capable of storing single-voxel and multivoxel spectroscopy, including spatial orientation information. The FSL-MRS toolbox includes tools for preprocessing of raw spectroscopy data, including coil combination, frequency and phase alignment, and filtering. A density matrix simulation program is supplied for generation of basis spectra from simple text-based descriptions of pulse sequences. Fitting is based on linear combination of basis spectra and implements Markov chain Monte Carlo optimization for the estimation of the full posterior distribution of metabolite concentrations. Validation of the fitting is carried out on independently created simulated data, phantom data, and three in vivo human data sets (257 single-voxel spectroscopy and 8 MRSI data sets) at 3 T and 7 T. Interactive HTML reports are automatically generated by processing and fitting stages of the toolbox. The FSL-MRS package can be used on the command line or interactively in the Python language.\nValidation of the fitting shows low error in simulation (median error of 11.9%) and in phantom (3.4%). Average correlation between a third-party toolbox (LCModel) and FSL-MRS was high (0.53-0.81) in all three in vivo data sets.\nThe FSL-MRS toolbox is designed to be flexible and extensible to new forms of spectroscopic acquisitions. Custom fitting models can be specified within the framework for dynamic or multivoxel spectroscopy. It is available as part of the FMRIB Software Library.",

    "abstract": "There are instances in which an estimate of the brain volume should be obtained from MRI in clinical practice. Our objective is to calculate cross-sectional robustness of a convolutional neural network (CNN) based software (Entelai Pic) for brain volume estimation and compare it to traditional software such as FreeSurfer, CAT12 and FSL in healthy controls (HC).\nSixteen HC were scanned four times, two different days on two different MRI scanners (1.5\u202fT and 3\u202fT). Volumetric T1-weighted images were acquired and post-processed with FreeSurfer v6.0.0, Entelai Pic v2, CAT12 v12.5 and FSL v5.0.9. Whole-brain, grey matter (GM), white matter (WM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volumes were calculated. Correlation and agreement between methods was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and Bland Altman plots. Robustness was assessed using the coefficient of variation (CV).\nWhole-brain volume estimation had better correlation between FreeSurfer and Entelai Pic (ICC (95% CI) 0.96 (0.94-0.97)) than FreeSurfer and CAT12 (0.92 (0.88-0.96)) and FSL (0.87 (0.79-0.91)). WM, GM and CSF showed a similar trend. Compared to FreeSurfer, Entelai Pic provided similarly robust segmentations of brain volumes both on same-scanner (mean CV 1.07, range 0.20-3.13% vs. mean CV 1.05, range 0.21-3.20%, p\u202f=\u202f0.86) and on different-scanner variables (mean CV 3.84, range 2.49-5.91% vs. mean CV 3.84, range 2.62-5.13%, p\u202f=\u202f0.96). Mean post-processing times were 480, 5, 40 and 5\u202fmin for FreeSurfer, Entelai Pic, CAT12 and FSL respectively.\nBased on robustness and processing times, our CNN-based model is suitable for cross-sectional volumetry on clinical practice.",

    "abstract": "Brain extraction represents an important step in numerous neuroimaging analyses. The brain extraction tool (BET)2 is a widely used deformable model-based approach for extraction of intracranial volume (ICV). The aim of this study is to estimate the ICV extraction accuracy using synthetic MR(SyMRI) method and BET2 in healthy adult participants and patients with Sturge-Weber Syndrome (SWS), including infants. 'Quantification of relaxation times and proton density by multi-echo acquisition of saturation recovery with turbo-spin-echo readout' (QRAPMASTER) with a 3.0\u00a0T magnetic resonance image (MRI) system was used for data acquisition. Statistical evaluations were performed with linear regression analysis and the Jaccard similarity coefficient (J). ICV extraction accuracy with synthetic MR method is found to be higher than BET2, for both aged healthy participants and SWS.",

    "abstract": "",

    "abstract": "Fibroblast stimulating lipopeptide 1 (FSL-1) is the ligand of TLR2 and TLR6 and can be used as the vaccine adjuvant to prepare antitumor vaccines. However, FSL-1 is a stereoisomeric mixture that contains the ",

    "abstract": "Depression is a common comorbid condition in Parkinson's disease (PD). Patients with depression have a two-fold increased risk to develop PD. Further, depression symptoms often precede motor symptoms in PD and are frequent at all stages of the disease. However, the influence of a depressive state on the responses to antiparkinson treatments is largely unknown. In this study, the genetically inbred depression-like flinders sensitive line (FSL) rats and control flinders resistant line (FRL) rats were studied in models of experimental parkinsonism. FSL rats showed a potentiated tremorgenic response to tacrine, a cholinesterase inhibitor used experimentally to induce 6 Hz resting tremor reminiscent of parkinsonian tremor. We also studied rats lesioned with 6-OHDA to induce hemiparkinsonism. No baseline differences in dopaminergic response to acute apomorphine or L-DOPA was found. However, following chronic treatment with L-DOPA, FRL rats developed sensitization of turning and abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs); these effects were counteracted by the anti-dyskinetic 5-HT",

    "abstract": "MUC1 is an attractive target for cancer vaccines as a result of its over-expression and aberrant glycosylation pattern on many tumor cells. However, the low immunogenicity of MUC1 and immune tolerance have limited its application. Herein, we designed MUC1-based tricomponent antitumor vaccines adjuvanted with fibroblast stimulating lipopeptide 1 (FSL-1). Immunological results indicate that the glycosylated tricomponent vaccine candidate has elicited both humoral and cellular immune responses. The induced antibodies could effectively bind to MCF-7. Furthermore, the vaccine exhibited an obvious reduction in tumour burden.",

    "abstract": "Protein antigens are, in general, weakly immunogenic, and therefore require co-delivery with adjuvants to stimulate potent immune responses. The fusion of (poly)peptide antigens to immunostimulatory adjuvants (e.g. Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists) has been demonstrated to greatly improve vaccine potency compared to mixtures of antigen and adjuvant. Chemical approaches, to enable the rapid, site-specific and high-yielding linkage of TLR2 ligands to recombinant protein antigens, have been previously optimized. These approaches require the use of denaturing conditions to ensure high reaction yields, which limits their application, as maintenance of native protein folding is necessary to elicit antibodies against conformational epitopes. Here, this work aimed to optimize an alternative method, to ensure the efficient bioconjugation of TLR2 ligands onto folded protein antigens. An enzyme-mediated approach, using Staphylococcus aureus sortase A (or a penta mutant with enhanced efficiency), was optimized for reaction yield and time, as well as enzyme type and amount. This approach enabled the site-specific conjugation of the TLR2-agonist fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide-1 (FSL-1) onto a model group A Streptococcus (GAS) recombinant polytope antigen under conditions that maintain protein folding, yielding a homogeneous, molecularly-defined product, with ligation yields as high as 90%. Following intramuscular (IM) administration of the ligation product to humanized plasminogen AlbPLG1 mice, high-titer, antigen-specific IgG antibodies were observed, which conferred protection against subcutaneous challenge with GAS strain 5448. In comparison, mixtures of the GAS antigen with aluminum hydroxide or FSL-1 failed to provide protection, with the FSL-1 mixture yielding ~1000-fold lower antigen-specific IgG antibody titers, and the mixture with alum yielding a Th2-biased response compared to the more balanced Th1/Th2 responses observed with the FSL-1 conjugate. Overall, a FSL-1 bioconjugation method for the efficient production of antigen-TLR2 agonist conjugates, which maintain protein folding, was produced, with broad utility for the development of self-adjuvanting vaccines against subunit protein antigens.",

    "abstract": "Mycoplasma infection can cause many diseases in pigs, resulting in great economic losses in pork production. Innate immune responses are thought to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of mycoplasma disease. However, the molecular events involved in immune responses remain to be determined. Hence, the object of this study was to use RNA-Seq to investigate the gene expression profiles of the innate immune response mediated by FSL-1 in pig monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs). The results revealed that 1442 genes were differentially expressed in the FSL-1 group compared with the control groups, of which 777 genes were upregulated and 665 genes were downregulated. KEGG pathway analysis showed that the upregulated genes were mainly involved in innate immune-related pathways including the TNF signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, Jak-STAT signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, NOD-like receptor signaling pathway and NF-kappa B signaling pathway. The downregulated genes were only involved in the cGMP-PKG signaling pathway and glycerophospholipid metabolism. Our results showed that FSL-1 stimulation activated the TLR2 signaling pathway and resulted in diverse inflammatory responses. FSL-1 induced the transcription of numerous protein-coding genes involved in a complex network of innate immune-related pathways. We speculate that TNF, IL1B, IL6, NFKB1, NFKBIA, CXCL2, CXCL8, CXCL10, CCL2, CCL4 and CCL5 were the most likely hub genes that play important roles in the above pathways. This study identified the differentially expressed genes and their related signaling pathways, contributing to the comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms underlying host-pathogen interactions during mycoplasma infection and providing a reference model for further studies.",

    "abstract": "P2X7 receptors (P2X7R) are ligand-gated ion channels activated by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), which are involved in processes that are dysfunctional in stress response and depression, such as neurotransmitter release, and neuroimmune response. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of the P2X7R induce antidepressant-like effects in animals exposed to stress. However, the effect of P2X7R antagonism in an animal model of depression based on selective breeding has not previously been studied, and the mechanism underling the antidepressant-like effect induced by the P2X7R blockade remains unknown.\nThe present study aimed to: (1) determine whether P2X7R blockade induces antidepressant-like effects in the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats and, (2) investigate whether brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signalling in the frontal cortex and hippocampus is involved in this effect.\nFSL and the control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats were treated with vehicle or the P2X7R antagonist A-804598 (3, 10 or 30\u2009mg/Kg/day) for 1 or 7 days before being exposed to the forced swim test (FST). After the behavioural test, animals were decapitated, their brains were removed and the frontal cortex, ventral and dorsal hippocampus were dissected for BDNF signalling analysis.\nWe found that repeated treatment with A-804598 (30\u2009mg/Kg) reduced the immobility time in the FST and activated the BDNF signalling in the ventral hippocampus of FSL rats.\nP2X7R blockade induces an antidepressant-like effect associated with increased levels of BDNF-AKT-p70 S6 kinase in the ventral hippocampus, which may be mediated by tropomyosin-related kinase B (TRKB) receptor activation supporting the notion of P2X7R antagonism as a potential new antidepressant strategy.",

    "abstract": "To understand the risk of hypoglycaemia during Ramadan fasting by use of CGM, as well as to observe the Glycemic control and renal functions in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease stage 3 (CKD-3).\nA prospective interventional study conducted in the Dubai Hospital, a tertiary care centre in the United Arab Emirates, during the month of Ramadan 1437 AH (Hijri), which corresponded to June 6th till July 5th, 2016. 25 patients with type 2 diabetes and stage 3 chronic kidney disease (CKD stage 3) were included in the study, who intended to fast during Ramadan. The aim was to observe the serum glucose level through 24\u202fh FreeStyle Libre flash continuous glucose monitor (FSL-CGM). Most patients had three sensors during the study, covering an average three weeks during Ramadan and three weeks outside Ramadan (Sha'ban and shawal). We also monitored the change in, BP, HBA1c, kidney functions and BMI before and after Ramadan.\nThis study included 25 adults with a mean age of 60 (\u00b114\u202fyears). Fasting Ramadan did not result in any significant change in biophysical and biochemical profile of these patients. Data from FSL-CGM showed significantly longer duration (101.9\u202f\u00b1\u202f119.1 Vs. 45.9\u202f\u00b1\u202f47.6\u202fmin, p\u202f<\u202f0.033) and more frequent hypoglycemic episodes (4.4\u202f\u00b1\u202f4.7 Vs. 2.3\u202f\u00b1\u202f3.0, p\u202f<\u202f0.047) during Ramadan compared tonon-Ramadan respectively. The mean blood glucose readings were also significantly lower (70.7\u202f\u00b1\u202f29.3 Vs.93.7\u202f\u00b1\u202f57.9\u202fmg/dl p\u202f<\u202f0.011) during Ramadan compared to non -fasting period. The renal function mean\u202f\u00b1\u202fSD (serum creatinine 1.48\u202f\u00b1\u202f0.37, 1.44\u202f\u00b1\u202f0.37 and eGFR, 49.0\u202f\u00b1\u202f18.4, 48.9\u202f\u00b1\u202f17.5 p 0.9) showed no significant change due to fasting.\nIn patients with diabetes and CKD-stage 3 Ramadan fasting under close supervision and optimal diabetes care, was not associated with worsening of HBA1c and renal function. Patients had significantly more frequent and prolonged hypoglycemic episodes during Ramadan.",

    "abstract": "Most of Muslims patients with diabetes and Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) elect to fast in Ramadan, but the actual risk in this subset of patients with diabetes is largely unknown. We aimed to understand the safety of fasting in CHD patients with diabetes insisting on fasting Ramadan under optimal care. We also monitored the change in biophysical and biochemical parameters of these patients before and after Ramadan. We conducted this prospective study in a tertiary care hospital in Dubai during Ramadan 2016, (June 6th till July 5th).\n21 Patients with T2DM with stable known CHD during the three months prior to study and insisted on fasting despite advice against it were recruited for the study. All patients received continuous glucose monitoring with free style libre monitoring device (FSL-CGM) during and outside Ramadan period. We recorded DM or CVD-related emergency visit or hospitalisation, change in BMI, systolic and diastolic BP, lipids profile, e-GFR, HBA1c, and frequency of hypoglycemia during Ramadan fasting and not -fasting period.\nThis is first study using CGM in CHD patients with diabetes who observe fast in Ramadan. Patients had a significantly higher incidence (3.2\u202f\u00b1\u202f2.8 vs 1.1\u202f\u00b1\u202f1.6 episodes, p\u202f=\u202f0.033) and prolonged duration of hypoglycemia (117.8\u202f\u00b1\u202f87.2, 49.1\u202f\u00b1\u202f59.1\u202fmin p 0.022) during fasting compared to non-fasting respectively. No significant alteration was seen in BMI, SBP and DBP, lipid profile and renal function. There is a significant improvement in HBA1c during Ramadan.\nWe could not associate any adverse cardiovascular effects with fasting Ramadan in patients with stable CHD under optimal diabetes care. FSL-CGMS data showed higher frequency of hypoglycemia during Ramadan fasting. Studies with larger sample size are needed for further validation of these findings.",

    "abstract": "To compare the cross-sectional robustness of commonly used volumetric software and effects of lesion filling in multiple sclerosis (MS).\nNine MS patients (six females; age 38\u00b113 years, disease duration 7.3\u00b15.2 years) were scanned twice with repositioning on three MRI scanners (Siemens Aera 1.5T, Avanto 1.5T, Trio 3.0T) the same day. Volumetric T\nVariability in volumetrics was lower within than between scanners (CoV 0.17-0.96% vs. 0.65-5.0%, p<0.001). All software provided similarly robust segmentations of the brain volume on the same scanner (CoV 0.17-0.28%, p=0.076). Normalisation improved inter-scanner reproducibility in FreeSurfer and SPM-based methods, but the FSL-SIENAX scaling factor did not improve robustness. Generally, SPM-based methods produced the most consistent volumetrics, while FreeSurfer was more robust for WM volumes on different scanners. FreeSurfer had more robust normalised brain and GM volumes on different scanners than FSL-SIENAX (p=0.004). MS lesion filling changed the output of FSL-SIENAX, SPM and SPM-CAT but not FreeSurfer.\nConsistent use of the same scanner is essential and normalisation to the intracranial volume is recommended for multiple scanners. Based on robustness, SPM-based methods are particularly suitable for cross-sectional volumetry. FreeSurfer poses a suitable alternative with WM segmentations less sensitive to MS lesions.\n\u2022 The same scanner should be used for brain volumetry. If different scanners are used, the intracranial volume normalisation improves the FreeSurfer and SPM robustness (but not the FSL scaling factor). \u2022 FreeSurfer, FSL and SPM all provide robust measures of the whole brain volume on the same MRI scanner. SPM-based methods overall provide the most robust segmentations (except white matter segmentations on different scanners where FreeSurfer is more robust). \u2022 MS lesion filling with Lesion Segmentation Toolbox changes the output of FSL-SIENAX and SPM. FreeSurfer output is not affected by MS lesion filling since it already takes white matter hypointensities into account and is therefore particularly suitable for MS brain volumetry.",

    "abstract": "To investigate the feasibility, effectiveness, and reproducibility of femtosecond laser (FSL) technology in different corneal cuts.\nExperimental study at the Brandon Regional Health Centre.\nTwenty two Human Cadaver eyes donated for research and supplied by the eye bank of Manitoba university.\nIn this experimental study, the effectiveness and reproducibility of FSL were investigated in different corneal cuts. The corneas were divided into 5 groups: group I for penetrating keratoplasty; group II for anterior lamellar keratoplasty; group III for corneal pockets for inlays; group IV for intracorneal ring tunnels; and group V for corneal cross-linking pockets. Our primary endpoint was the repeatability of planned versus obtained thickness and diameter of the cuts with FSL. A secondary endpoint was the effectiveness and ease of dissection, rated from 0-4, with 4 being the easiest and 0 the most difficult to dissect.\nThere was a high correlation between planned and obtained thickness (r = 0.997, p < 0.001) and diameter (r = 0.998, p < 0.001). Both were statistically significant. Linear regression analyses showed that the obtained thickness of corneal cuts in micrometers was significantly predicted by the planned thickness of corneal cuts in micrometers (\u03b2 = 0.996, t = 56.47, p < 0.001). Likewise, the obtained diameter of corneal cuts in millimeters was significantly predicted by the planned diameter of corneal cuts in millimeters (\u03b2 = 0.971, t = 70.85, p < 0.001). The surgeons gave 15 out of a total of 22 corneas (68.2%) the maximum score for ease of dissection (Grade 4), where no adhesions were found and the dissection was smooth and steady. Five corneas out of a total of 22 (22.7%) were given a score of 3 of 4 where minor adhesions were found. Two corneas out of a total of 22 (9.1%) were given a score of 2 of 4 where >1 adhesion was found, with some difficulty in separating the cut cornea from the bed. No corneas were given grade 1 or grade 0. No significant differences were obtained for the ease of dissection among the 5 surgery types using Kruskal-Wallis H test (H [4] = 4.971, p > 0.05).\nThe measured corneal-cut geometry correlated well with laser settings in a variety of full- and partial-thickness FSL corneal patterns, including different depths and diameters. This reproducible efficacy and measurement accuracy of the planned versus obtained cuts could have a favourable result on a variety of corneal surgeries. It also yields a favourable ease of dissection of the cut lenticule from the stromal bed.",

    "abstract": "Measurements of brain volume loss (BVL) in individual patients are currently discussed controversially. One concern is the impact of short-term biological noise, like hydration status.\nThree publicly available reliability MRI datasets with scan intervals of days to weeks were used. An additional cohort of 60 early relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with MRI follow-ups was analyzed to test whether after 1\u00a0year pathological BVL is detectable in a relevant fraction of MS patients. BVL was determined using SIENA/FSL. Results deviating from zero in the reliability datasets were considered as within-patient fluctuation (WPF) consisting of the intrinsic measurement error as well as the short-term biological fluctuations of brain volumes. We provide an approach to interpret BVL measurements in individual patients taking the WPF into account.\nThe estimated standard deviation of BVL measurements from the pooled reliability datasets was 0.28%. For a BVL measurement of x% per year in an individual patient, the true BVL lies with an error probability of 5% in the interval x%\u2009\u00b1\u2009(1.96\u2009\u00d7\u20090.28)/(scan interval in years)%. To allow a BVL per year of at least 0.4% to be identified after 1\u00a0year, the measured BVL needs to exceed 0.94%. The median BVL per year in the MS patient cohort was 0.44%. In 11 out of 60 MS patients (18%) we found a BVL per year equal or greater than 0.94%.\nThe estimated WPF may be helpful when interpreting BVL results on an individual patient level in diseases such as MS.",

    "abstract": null,

    "abstract": "Brain volume loss (BVL) has gained increasing interest for monitoring tissue damage in neurodegenerative diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS). In this longitudinal study, 117 healthy participants (age range 37.3-82.6\u00a0years) received at least 2 magnetic resonance imaging examinations. BVL (in %) was determined with the Structural Image Evaluation using Normalisation of Atrophy/FMRIB Software Library and annualized. Mean BVL per year was 0.15%, 0.30%, 0.46%, and 0.61% at ages 45, 55, 65, and 75 years, respectively. The corresponding BVL per year values of the age-dependent 95th percentiles were 0.52%, 0.77%, 1.05% and 1.45%. Pathological BVL can be assumed if an individual BVL per year exceeds these thresholds for a given age. The mean BVL per year determined in this longitudinal study was consistent with results from a cross-sectional study that was published recently. The cut-off for a pathological BVL per year at the age of 45 years (0.52%) was consistent with the cut-off suggested previously to distinguish between physiological and pathological BVL in MS patients. Different cut-off values, however, need to be considered when interpreting BVL assessed in cohorts of higher ages.",

    "abstract": "Risks of radiation exposure from nuclear incidents and cancer radiotherapy are undeniable realities. These dangers urgently compel the development of agents for ameliorating radiation-induced injuries. Biologic pathways mediated by myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), the common adaptor for toll-like receptor (TLR) and Interleukin-1 receptor signaling, are critical for radioprotection. Treating with agonists prior to radiation enhances survival by activating TLR signaling, whereas radiomitigating TLR-activating therapeutics given after exposure are less defined. We examine the radiomitigation capability of TLR agonists and identify one that is superior for its efficacy and reduced toxic consequences compared to other tested agonists. We demonstrate that the synthetic TLR2/6 ligand Fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide (FSL-1) substantially prolongs survival in both male and female mice when administered 24\u2009hours after radiation and shows MyD88-dependent function. FSL-1 treatment results in accelerated hematopoiesis in bone marrow, spleen and periphery, and augments systemic levels of hematopoiesis-stimulating factors. The ability of FSL-1 to stimulate hematopoiesis is critical, as hematopoietic dysfunction results from a range of ionizing radiation doses. The efficacy of a single FSL-1 dose for alleviating radiation injury while protecting against adverse effects reveals a viable radiation countermeasures agent.",

    "abstract": "Segmentation of human brain structures is crucial for the volumetric quantification of brain disease. Advances in algorithmic approaches have led to automated techniques that save time compared to interactive methods. Recently, the utility and accuracy of template library fusion algorithms, such as Local MAP PSTAPLE (PSTAPLE), have been demonstrated but there is little guidance regarding its reproducibility compared to single template-based algorithms such as FreeSurfer and FSL-FIRST.\nEight repeated magnetic resonance imagings of 20 subjects were segmented using FreeSurfer, FSL-FIRST, and PSTAPLE. We reported the reproducibility of segmentation-derived volume measurements for brain structures and calculated sample size estimates for detecting hypothetical rates of tissue atrophy given the observed variances.\nPSTAPLE had the most reproducible volume measurements for hippocampus, putamen, thalamus, caudate, pallidum, amygdala, Accumbens area, and cortical regions. FreeSurfer was most reproducible for brainstem. PSTAPLE was the most accurate algorithm in terms of several metrics include Dice's coefficient. The sample size estimates showed that a study utilizing PSTAPLE would require tens to hundreds less subjects than the other algorithms for detecting atrophy rates typically observed in brain disease.\nPSTAPLE is a useful tool for automatic human brain segmentation due to its precision and accuracy, which enable the detection of the size of the effect typically reported for neurological disorders with a substantially reduced sample size, in comparison to the other tools we assessed. This enables randomized controlled trials to be executed with reduced cost and duration, in turn, facilitating the assessment of new therapeutic interventions.",

    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to investigate the use of one magnetic resonance image-processing tool, FSL, in its ability to perform automated segmentation of computed tomographic images of the brain.\nHead computed tomography (CT) images were brain extracted and segmented using the FSL tools BET and FAST, respectively. The products of segmentation were analyzed by histogram. The impact of image intensity inhomogeneity correction was investigated using simulated bias fields, 14 routine head CT scans, and selected illustrative clinical cases.\nFSL FAST performs direct segmentation of head CT images, permitting quantitation of gray and white matter densities and volumes, achieving a more complete segmentation than masking methods. \"Bias field correction\" reduced the covariance of image signal intensities of the total brain and gray matter images (P < 0.01). Correction is larger when the effects of beam hardening and radiation scatter are larger, resulting in improved segmentation.\nFSL FAST enables direct segmentation of head CT images.",

    "abstract": "MRI-based hippocampus volume is a core clinical biomarker for identification of Alzheimer's disease (AD).\nTo assess robustness of automatic hippocampus volumetry with the freely available FSL-FIRST software with respect to short-term repeat and across field strength imaging. FSL-FIRST hippocampus volume (FIRST-HV) was also evaluated as enrichment biomarker for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) trials.\nRobustness of FIRST-HV was assessed in 51 healthy controls (HC), 74 MCI subjects, and 28 patients with AD dementia from ADNI1, each with two pairs of back-to-back scans, one at 1.5T one at 3T. Enrichment performance was tested in a second sample of 287 ADNI MCI subjects.\nFSL-FIRST worked properly in all four scans in 147 out of 153 subjects of the first sample (49 HC, 72 MCI, 26 AD). In these subjects, FIRST-HV did not differ between the first and the second scan within an imaging session, neither at 1.5T nor at 3T (p\u22650.302). FIRST-HV was on average 0.78% larger at 3T compared to 1.5T (p\u200a=\u200a0.012). The variance of the FIRST-HV difference was larger in the inter-field strength setting than in the intra-scanner settings (p\u200a<\u200a0.0005). Computer simulations suggested that the additional variability encountered in the inter-field strength scenario does not cause a relevant degradation of FIRST-HV's prognostic performance in MCI. FIRST-HV based enrichment resulted in considerably increased effect size of the 2-years change of cognitive measures.\nThe impact of intra-scanner test-retest and inter-field strength variability of FIRST-HV on clinical tasks is negligible. In addition, FIRST-HV is useful for enrichment in clinical MCI trials.",

    "abstract": "Although several methods have been developed to automatically delineate subcortical gray matter structures from MR images, the accuracy of these algorithms has not been comprehensively examined. Most of earlier studies focused primarily on the hippocampus. Here, we assessed the accuracy of two widely used non-commercial programs (FSL-FIRST and Freesurfer) for segmenting the caudate and putamen. T1-weighted 1\u2009mm",

    "abstract": "Accurate and robust segmentation of subcortical gray matter (SGM) nuclei is required in many neuroimaging applications. FMRIB's Integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool (FIRST) is one of the most popular software tools for automated subcortical segmentation based on T",

    "abstract": "The effect of T1 signal on FSL voxel-based morphometry modulated GM density and FreeSurfer cortical thickness is explored. The techniques rely on different analyses, but both are commonly used to detect spatial changes in GM. Standard pipelines show FSL voxel-based morphometry is sensitive to T1 signal alterations within a physiologic range, and results can appear discordant between FSL voxel-based morphometry and FreeSurfer cortical thickness. Care should be taken in extrapolating results to the effect on brain volume.",

    "abstract": "Accurate extraction of cardiac fiber orientation from diffusion tensor imaging is important for determining heart structure and function. However, the acquisition of magnetic resonance (MR) diffusion tensor images is costly and time consuming. By comparison, cardiac ultrasound imaging is rapid and relatively inexpensive, but it lacks the capability to directly measure fiber orientations. In order to create a detailed heart model from ultrasound data, a three-dimensional (3D) diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) with known fiber orientations can be registered to an ultrasound volume through a geometric mask. After registration, the cardiac orientations from the template DTI can be mapped to the heart using a deformable transformation field. This process depends heavily on accurate fiber orientation extraction from the DTI. In this study, we use the FMRIB Software Library (FSL) to determine cardiac fiber orientations in diffusion weighted images. For the registration between ultrasound and MRI volumes, we achieved an average Dice similarity coefficient (DSC) of 81.6\u00b12.1%. For the estimation of fiber orientations from the proposed method, we achieved an acute angle error (AAE) of 22.7\u00b13.1\u00b0 as compared to the direct measurements from DTI. This work provides a new approach to generate cardiac fiber orientation that may be used for many cardiac applications.",

    "abstract": "Repetitive Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) has appeared to be a potential non-invasive antidepressant method, which implies non-convulsive focal stimulation of the brain through a time varying magnetic field. The antidepressant potential of rTMS has been supported by animal studies showing a number of interesting similarities between magnetic stimulation and electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS). Despite these positive results, this method still contains many unknown issues. Importantly, there are fundamental uncertainties concerning the optimal combination of stimulus parameters (frequency, intensity, duration, and number of pulses) to obtain an antidepressant effect. Therefore, the present study aimed to qualify the choice of rTMS stimulus frequency in a well-validated genetic animal model of depression, the FSL/FRL rats. We compared the antidepressant effect of low frequency, high frequency rTMS and ECS to sham treatment in FRL and FSL rats using 6 parallel groups. We used the Forced Swim Test and the Open Field Test to screen the depression-like state in rats. We found that both the high frequency and the low frequency rTMS resulted in a significant antidepressant effect. However, this effect was inferior to the effect of ECS. The low frequency and high frequency groups, which received the same total impulse load and stimulus intensity, did not differ with respect to antidepressant efficacy in this study. In conclusion, this study provides robust evidence that both rTMS interventions are efficacious, although not as efficient as ECS.",

    "abstract": null,

    "abstract": "We present the package ",

    "abstract": "The purpose of this study is to assess the reproducibility of hippocampal atrophy rate measurements of commonly used fully-automated algorithms in Alzheimer disease (AD). The reproducibility of hippocampal atrophy rate for FSL/FIRST, AdaBoost, FreeSurfer, MAPS independently and MAPS combined with the boundary shift integral (MAPS-HBSI) were calculated. Back-to-back (BTB) 3D T1-weighted MPRAGE MRI from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1) study at baseline and year one were used. Analysis on 3 groups of subjects was performed - 562 subjects at 1.5T, a 75 subject group that also had manual segmentation and 111 subjects at 3T. A simple and novel statistical test based on the binomial distribution was used that handled outlying data points robustly. Median hippocampal atrophy rates were -1.1%/year for healthy controls, -3.0%/year for mildly cognitively impaired and -5.1%/year for AD subjects. The best reproducibility was observed for MAPS-HBSI (1.3%), while the other methods tested had reproducibilities at least 50% higher at 1.5T and 3T which was statistically significant. For a clinical trial, MAPS-HBSI should require less than half the subjects of the other methods tested. All methods had good accuracy versus manual segmentation. The MAPS-HBSI method has substantially better reproducibility than the other methods considered.",

    "abstract": "MRI-based hippocampus volume, a core feasible biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is not yet widely used in clinical patient care, partly due to lack of validation of software tools for hippocampal volumetry that are compatible with routine workflow. Here, we evaluate fully-automated and computationally efficient hippocampal volumetry with FSL-FIRST for prediction of AD dementia (ADD) in subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) from phase 1 of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Receiver operating characteristic analysis of FSL-FIRST hippocampal volume (corrected for head size and age) revealed an area under the curve of 0.79, 0.70, and 0.70 for prediction of aMCI-to-ADD conversion within 12, 24, or 36 months, respectively. Thus, FSL-FIRST provides about the same power for prediction of progression to ADD in aMCI as other volumetry methods.",

    "abstract": "T2 Lesion Volume (T2LV) has been an important biomarker for multiple sclerosis (MS). Current methods available to quantify lesions from MR images generally require manual adjustments or multiple images with different contrasts. Further, implementations are often not easily or openly accessible.\nWe created a fully unsupervised, single T2 FLAIR image T2LV quantification package based on the popular open-source imaging toolkit FSL.\nBy scripting various processing tools in FSL, we developed an image processing pipeline that distinguishes normal brain tissue from CSF and lesions. We validated our method by hierarchical multiple regression (HMR) with a preliminary study to see if our T2LVs correlate with clinical disability measures in MS when controlled for other variables.\nPearson correlations between T2LV and Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS: r = 0.344, P = 0.013), Six-Minute Walk (6MW: r = -0.513, P = 0.000), Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25FW: r = -0.438, P = .000), and Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT: r = -0.499, P = 0.000) were all significant. Partial correlations controlling for age were significant between T2LV and 6MW (r = -0.433, P = 0.002), T25FW (r = -0.392, P = 0.004), and SDMT (r = -0.450, P = 0.001). In HMR, T2LV explained significant additional variance in 6MW (R(2) change = 0.082, P = 0.020), after controlling for confounding variables such as age, white matter volume (WMV), and gray matter volume (GMV).\nOur T2LV quantification software produces T2LVs from a single FLAIR image that correlate with physical disability in MS and is freely available as open-source software.",

    "abstract": "The volumetric quantification of brain structures is of great interest in pediatric populations because it allows the investigation of different factors influencing neurodevelopment. FreeSurfer and FSL both provide frequently used packages for automatic segmentation of brain structures. In this study, we examined the accuracy and consistency of those two automated protocols relative to manual segmentation, commonly considered as the \"gold standard\" technique, for estimating hippocampus and amygdala volumes in a sample of preadolescent children aged between 6 to 11 years. The volumes obtained with FreeSurfer and FSL-FIRST were evaluated and compared with manual segmentations with respect to volume difference, spatial agreement and between- and within-method correlations. Results highlighted a tendency for both automated techniques to overestimate hippocampus and amygdala volumes, in comparison to manual segmentation. This was more pronounced when using FreeSurfer than FSL-FIRST and, for both techniques, the overestimation was more marked for the amygdala than the hippocampus. Pearson correlations support moderate associations between manual tracing and FreeSurfer for hippocampus (right r=0.69, p<0.001; left r=0.77, p<0.001) and amygdala (right r=0.61, p<0.001; left r=0.67, p<0.001) volumes. Correlation coefficients between manual segmentation and FSL-FIRST were statistically significant (right hippocampus r=0.59, p<0.001; left hippocampus r=0.51, p<0.001; right amygdala r=0.35, p<0.001; left amygdala r=0.31, p<0.001) but were significantly weaker, for all investigated structures. When computing intraclass correlation coefficients between manual tracing and automatic segmentation, all comparisons, except for left hippocampus volume estimated with FreeSurfer, failed to reach 0.70. When looking at each method separately, correlations between left and right hemispheric volumes showed strong associations between bilateral hippocampus and bilateral amygdala volumes when assessed using manual segmentation or FreeSurfer. These correlations were significantly weaker when volumes were assessed with FSL-FIRST. Finally, Bland-Altman plots suggest that the difference between manual and automatic segmentation might be influenced by the volume of the structure, because smaller volumes were associated with larger volume differences between techniques. These results demonstrate that, at least in a pediatric population, the agreement between amygdala and hippocampus volumes obtained with automated FSL-FIRST and FreeSurfer protocols and those obtained with manual segmentation is not strong. Visual inspection by an informed individual and, if necessary, manual correction of automated segmentation outputs are important to ensure validity of volumetric results and interpretation of related findings.",

    "abstract": "Toll-like receptors (TLR) are a family of pattern recognition receptors that sense microbial associated molecular patterns (MAMP) such as microbial membrane components and nucleic acids of bacterial origin. Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) are the first cell of the innate immune system to arrive at the site of infection or injury and elicit oxidative and non-oxidative microbicidal mechanisms. Observations in human and mouse suggest that TLR ligands can induce direct responses in PMN. So far, there is no information of the effect of synthetic TLR ligands on the response of bovine PMN. The objective of this study was to evaluate the functional response of bovine PMN incubated with four synthetic TLR ligands: ultrapure LPS (TLR4), Pam(3)CSK(4) (TLR2/1), HKLM (TLR2) and FSL-1 (TLR2/6). The results show that all the ligands increment cells size as identified by changes in the FSC-SSC as part of the flow cytometric analysis. Interestingly, only Pam(3)CSK(4) consistently induced a calcium influx, increased ROS production and secretion of gelatinase granules, whereas no response was seen using other ligands. Furthermore, exposure of bovine PMN to ultrapure LPS, Pam(3)CSK(4), HKLM or FSL-1 for 24 hours did not impact on apoptosis of these cells. Our data provide evidence for a selective response of bovine PMNs to TLR ligands.",

    "abstract": "Modeling depression in animals is based on the observation of behaviors interpreted as analog to human symptoms. Typical tests used in experimental depression research are designed to evoke an either-or outcome. It is known that explorative and coping strategies are relevant for depression, however these aspects are generally not considered in animal behavioral testing. Here we investigate the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), a rat model of depression, compared to the Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat in three independent tests where the animals are allowed to express a more extensive behavioral repertoire. The multivariate concentric square field\u2122 (MCSF) and the novel cage tests evoke exploratory behaviors in a novel environment and the home cage change test evokes social behaviors in the re-establishment of a social hierarchy. In the MCSF test, FSL rats exhibited less exploratory drive and more risk-assessment behavior compared to SD rats. When re-exposed to the arena, FSL, but not SD rats, increased their exploratory behavior compared to the first trial and displayed risk-assessment behavior to the same extent as SD rats. Thus, the behavior of FSL rats was more similar to that of SDs when the rats were familiar with the arena. In the novel cage test FSL rats exhibited a reactive coping style, consistent with the reduced exploration observed in the MCSF. Reactive coping is associated with less aggressive behavior. Accordingly, FSL rats displayed less aggressive behavior in the home cage change test. Taken together, our data show that FSL rats express altered exploratory behavior and reactive coping style. Reduced interest is a core symptom of depression, and individuals with a reactive coping style are more vulnerable to the disease. Our results support the use of FSL rats as an animal model of depression and increase our understanding of the FSL rat beyond the behavioral dimensions targeted by the traditional depression-related tests.",

    "abstract": "Because our previous study showed disparate voxel based morphometry (VBM) results between SPM and FSL softwares in the brain of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients with frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD), we investigated which VBM results may more represent atrophy by comparing with Freesurfer's cortical volume and thickness measures.\nMRI at 1.5 T was obtained during routine clinical imaging of ALS-FTD patients (n\u2009=\u200918) and in unaffected neurologic controls (n\u2009=\u200915). Gray matter (GM) VBM analysis was carried out using FSL and SPM. Cortical thickness and volume analysis was performed using Freesurfer.\nGM volume was significantly (p\u2009<\u20090.05) reduced in both motor and extra motor regions in ALS- FTD when compared to unaffected neurologic controls in FSL and Freesurfer but not in SPM. Dice similarity index for cortical GM volume changes between FSL and Freesurfer was 0.30 for motor and 0.31 for non-motor regions as opposed to 0 (motor) and 0.02 (non-motor) between SPM and Freesurfer.\nGM volume changes using FSL showed similar pattern with Freesurfer cortical volume and thickness changes in contrast to SPM results. Our results suggest that, at least for our dataset, VBM results obtained using FSL software should be considered as more representative of GM atrophy.",

    "abstract": "We investigated the question of whether cholesterol catabolite can influence expression of inflammatory cytokines via Toll-like receptors (TLR) in monocytic cells. Treatment of THP-1 monocytic cells with 27-hydroxycholesterol (27OHChol) resulted in induction of gene transcription of TLR6 and elevated level of cell surface TLR6. Addition of FSL-1, a TLR6 agonist, to 27OHChol-treated cells resulted in transcription of the IL-1\u03b1 gene and enhanced secretion of the corresponding gene product. However, cholesterol did not affect TLR6 expression, and addition of FSL-1 to cholesterol-treated cells did not induce expression of IL-1\u03b1. Using pharmacological inhibitors, we investigated molecular mechanisms underlying the expression of TLR6 and IL-1\u03b1. Treatment with Akt inhibitor IV or U0126 resulted in significantly attenuated expression of TLR6 and IL-1\u03b1 induced by 27OHChol and 27OHChol plus FSL-1, respectively. In addition, treatment with LY294002, SB202190, or SP600125 resulted in significantly attenuated secretion of IL-1\u03b1. These results indicate that 27OHChol can induce inflammation by augmentation of TLR6-mediated production of IL-1\u03b1 in monocytic cells via multiple signaling pathways.",

    "abstract": "Oxidative stress (OS) is common in inflammatory conditions and may be important in atopic dermatitis (AD) etiology. The aim of this project was to study the involvement of oxidation in FSL-1 (deacylated lipoprotein)-triggered signaling pathways leading to AD-typical cytokine expression in HaCaT keratinocytes. HaCaT keratinocytes, pretreated with the inhibitor to OS N-acetylcysteine (NAC), were exposed to FSL-1, a stimulator of AD-related cytokines. Cytokines expression was studied by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR); nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-\u03baB) and p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) activities were studied by western blotting; and the oxidative state of cells was determined by the dichlorofluorescein (DCF) assay. We found that endogenous OS in keratinocytes appeared 4 h after FSL-1 administration. OS activated NF-\u03baB, but not p38 MAPK, and the inhibition of OS reduced FSL-1 induced interleukin (IL) 33, thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) and TNF\u03b1 mRNA expression. We conclude that FSL-1 triggers an OS reaction in HaCaT keratinocytes, which is probably a secondary event affecting the expression of specific AD typical cytokines, possibly through the NF-\u03baB pathways. This role of OS in the inflammatory response in AD is worth further investigating.",

    "abstract": "Accurate brain tissue segmentation from magnetic resonance (MR) images is an important step in analysis of cerebral images. There are software packages which are used for brain segmentation. These packages usually contain a set of skull stripping, intensity non-uniformity (bias) correction and segmentation routines. Thus, assessment of the quality of the segmented gray matter (GM), white matter (WM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is needed for the neuroimaging applications.\nIn this paper, performance evaluation of three widely used brain segmentation software packages SPM8, FSL and Brainsuite is presented. Segmentation with SPM8 has been performed in three frameworks: i) default segmentation, ii) SPM8 New-segmentation and iii) modified version using hidden Markov random field as implemented in SPM8-VBM toolbox.\nThe accuracy of the segmented GM, WM and CSF and the robustness of the tools against changes of image quality has been assessed using Brainweb simulated MR images and IBSR real MR images. The calculated similarity between the segmented tissues using different tools and corresponding ground truth shows variations in segmentation results.\nA few studies has investigated GM, WM and CSF segmentation. In these studies, the skull stripping and bias correction are performed separately and they just evaluated the segmentation. Thus, in this study, assessment of complete segmentation framework consisting of pre-processing and segmentation of these packages is performed. The obtained results can assist the users in choosing an appropriate segmentation software package for the neuroimaging application of interest.",

    "abstract": "Diffusion imaging is a unique noninvasive tool to detect brain white matter trajectory and integrity in vivo. However, this technique suffers from spatial distortion and signal pileup or dropout originating from local susceptibility gradients and eddy currents. Although there are several methods to mitigate these problems, most techniques can be applicable either to susceptibility or eddy-current induced distortion alone with a few exceptions. The present study compared the correction efficiency of FSL tools, \"eddy_correct\" and the combination of \"eddy\" and \"topup\" in terms of diffusion-derived fractional anisotropy (FA). The brain diffusion images were acquired from 10 healthy subjects using 30 and 60 directions encoding schemes based on the electrostatic repulsive forces. For the 30 directions encoding, 2 sets of diffusion images were acquired with the same parameters, except for the phase-encode blips which had opposing polarities along the anteroposterior direction. For the 60 directions encoding, non-diffusion-weighted and diffusion-weighted images were obtained with forward phase-encoding blips and non-diffusion-weighted images with the same parameter, except for the phase-encode blips, which had opposing polarities. FA images without and with distortion correction were compared in a voxel-wise manner with tract-based spatial statistics. We showed that images corrected with eddy and topup possessed higher FA values than images uncorrected and corrected with eddy_correct with trilinear (FSL default setting) or spline interpolation in most white matter skeletons, using both encoding schemes. Furthermore, the 60 directions encoding scheme was superior as measured by increased FA values to the 30 directions encoding scheme, despite comparable acquisition time. This study supports the combination of eddy and topup as a superior correction tool in diffusion imaging rather than the eddy_correct tool, especially with trilinear interpolation, using 60 directions encoding scheme.",

    "abstract": "Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is known to be implicated in the pathogenesis of many inflammatory disorders. FSL-1 (fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide-1) induces cytokine production by monocytes/macrophages. However, it is unclear whether FSL-1 is also able to induce MMP-9 production. Herein, we determined whether FSL-1 could induce MMP-9 production, and if so, which signal transduction pathway(s) were involved.\nMMP-9 expression was assessed with real-time qPCR and ELISA. Signaling pathways were studied by using THP1-XBlue\u2122 cells, THP1-XBlue\u2122-defMyD cells, anti-TLR2 mAb and pharmacological inhibitors. Phospho and total proteins were determined by Western blotting.\nFSL-1 induces MMP-9 expression (P<0.001) at both mRNA and protein levels in human monocytic THP-1 cells. Elevated activity (P<0.001) of NF-\u03baB/AP-1 was also observed in FSL-1-treated THP-1 cells. FSL-1-induced MMP-9 secretion was markedly suppressed either by neutralizing anti-TLR-2 antibody or by inhibiting clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Furthermore, MyD88(-/-) THP-1 cells did not express MMP-9 in response to FSL-1 treatment. By small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown, we also show that FSL-1-induced up-regulation of MMP-9 requires MyD88. Pre-treatment of THP-1 cells with inhibitors of JNK (SP600125), MEK/ERK (U0126; PD98056; XMD 8-92), p38 MAPK (SB203580) and NF-\u03baB (BAY11-7085, Triptolide, Resveratrol) significantly suppressed (P<0.05) MMP-9 gene expression and NF-\u03baB/AP-1 transcription factors activity.\nThese findings provide the first evidence that FSL-1 induces TLR-2-dependent MMP-9 gene expression which requires the recruitment of MyD88 and leads to activation of MEK1/2 /ERK 1/2, MEK5/ERK5, JNK, p38 MAPK and NF-\u03baB/AP-1.",

    "abstract": "The back-to-back (BTB) acquisition of MP-RAGE MRI scans of the Alzheimer\u05f3s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1) provides an excellent data set with which to check the reproducibility of brain atrophy measures. As part of ADNI1, 131 subjects received BTB MP-RAGEs at multiple time points and two field strengths of 3T and 1.5 T. As a result, high quality data from 200 subject-visit-pairs was available to compare the reproducibility of brain atrophies measured with FSL/SIENA over 12 to 18 month intervals at both 3T and 1.5 T. Although several publications have reported on the differing performance of brain atrophy measures at 3T and 1.5 T, no formal comparison of reproducibility has been published to date. Another goal was to check whether tuning SIENA options, including -B, -S, -R and the fractional intensity threshold (f) had a significant impact on the reproducibility. The BTB reproducibility for SIENA was quantified by the 50th percentile of the absolute value of the difference in the percentage brain volume change (PBVC) for the BTB MP-RAGES. At both 3T and 1.5 T the SIENA option combination of \"-B f=0.2\", which is different from the default values of f=0.5, yielded the best reproducibility as measured by the 50th percentile yielding 0.28 (0.23-0.39)% and 0.26 (0.20-0.32)%. These results demonstrated that in general 3T had no advantage over 1.5 T for the whole brain atrophy measure - at least for SIENA. While 3T MRI is superior to 1.5 T for many types of measurements, and thus worth the additional cost, brain atrophy measurement does not seem to be one of them.",

    "abstract": "Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 2 and 5 induce inflammation via the adapter proteins myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and TNFR-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-\u03baB). The aims of this study were to determine the effects of the TLR5 ligand flagellin and the TLR2 ligand FSL-1 on pro-inflammatory and pro-labour mediators in human fetal membranes and myometrium, and to establish whether their actions are dependent on MyD88, TRAF6 and NF-\u03baB.\nTissue explants were performed to determine the effect of flagellin and FSL-1 on pro-labour mediators in fetal membranes and myometrium. siRNA knockdown was performed in primary amnion and myometrium cells to determine the role of MyD88, TRAF6 and NF-\u03baB.\nFlagellin and FSL-1 increased pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and IL-8), MMP-9 expression and activity, and COX-2 expression and prostaglandin release. siRNA knockdown of TLR2 decreased FSL-1 induced production of IL-6, IL-8, COX-2, prostaglandins and MMP-9; similarly, siRNA knockdown of TLR5 decreased flagellin induced production of these pro-labour mediators. The effects of flagellin and FSL-1 are mediated by MyD88 and TRAF6, as siRNA knockdown of MyD88 and TRAF6 decreased flagellin and FSL-1 induced pro-labour mediators. Additionally, the effects of flagellin and FSL-1 are mediated via NF-\u03baB, as flagellin and FSL-1 increased NF-\u03baB transcriptional activity, and the NF-\u03baB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 attenuated flagellin and FSL-1 induced expression and secretion of pro-labour mediators.\nTLR2 engagement by the synthetic lipoprotein FSL-1 and TLR5 engagement by bacterial flagellin enhances pro-inflammatory and pro-labour mediators in human fetal membranes and myometrium via MyD88/TRAF6/NF-\u03baB.",

    "abstract": "The demonstration that humans can learn to modulate their own brain activity based on feedback of neurophysiological signals opened up exciting opportunities for fundamental and applied neuroscience. Although EEG-based neurofeedback has been long employed both in experimental and clinical investigation, functional MRI (fMRI)-based neurofeedback emerged as a promising method, given its superior spatial resolution and ability to gauge deep cortical and subcortical brain regions. In combination with improved computational approaches, such as pattern recognition analysis (e.g., Support Vector Machines, SVM), fMRI neurofeedback and brain decoding represent key innovations in the field of neuromodulation and functional plasticity. Expansion in this field and its applications critically depend on the existence of freely available, integrated and user-friendly tools for the neuroimaging research community. Here, we introduce FRIEND, a graphic-oriented user-friendly interface package for fMRI neurofeedback and real-time multivoxel pattern decoding. The package integrates routines for image preprocessing in real-time, ROI-based feedback (single-ROI BOLD level and functional connectivity) and brain decoding-based feedback using SVM. FRIEND delivers an intuitive graphic interface with flexible processing pipelines involving optimized procedures embedding widely validated packages, such as FSL and libSVM. In addition, a user-defined visual neurofeedback module allows users to easily design and run fMRI neurofeedback experiments using ROI-based or multivariate classification approaches. FRIEND is open-source and free for non-commercial use. Processing tutorials and extensive documentation are available.",

    "abstract": "One-electron reductases that reduce nitro compounds in hypoxic human tumour cells are poorly characterized, but are important for targeting hypoxia with nitroaromatic prodrugs. Fluorogenic probes with defined reductase profiles are needed to interrogate the activity of these enzymes in intact cells. In the present paper, we report a 6-nitroquinolone ester (FSL-61) as a fluorogenic probe for POR (NADPH:cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase) activity under hypoxia, and demonstrate its suitability of monitoring POR by flow cytometry. Reduction of FSL-61 by purified recombinant human POR generated the corresponding hydroxylamine, which was non-fluorescent, but was reduced further to the fluorescent amine in cells. Hydrolysis of the ester side chain facilitated cellular entrapment, enabling detection of heterogeneous POR expression in mixed populations of cells. In addition to POR, forced expression of three other diflavin reductases [MTRR (methionine synthase reductase), NDOR1 (NADPH-dependent diflavin oxidoreductase 1) and NOS2A (nitric oxide synthase 2A)] or NADPH:adrenoredoxin oxidoreductase in HCT116 cells significantly increased hypoxic activation of FSL-61. This reductase profile is similar to that for the dinitrobenzamide prodrug PR-104A under hypoxia, and fluorogenic metabolism of FSL-61 correlated significantly with PR-104A activation in a panel of 22 human tumour cell lines. The present study thus demonstrates the utility of FSL-61 for rapid and non-destructive interrogation of the activity of one-electron reductases in hypoxic cells at the single-cell level.",

    "abstract": "TLR6 forms a heterodimer with TLR2 and TLR4. While proinflammatory roles of TLR2 and TLR4 are well documented, the role of TLR6 in inflammation is poorly understood. In order to understand mechanisms of action of TLR6 in inflammatory responses, we investigated the effects of FSL-1, the TLR6 ligand, on expression of chemokine CCL2 and cytokine IL-1\u03b2 and determined cellular factors involved in FSL-1-mediated expression of CCL2 and IL-1\u03b2 in mononuclear cells. Exposure of human monocytic leukemia THP-1 cells to FSL-1 resulted not only in enhanced secretion of CCL2 and IL-1\u03b2, but also profound induction of their gene transcripts. Expression of CCL2 was abrogated by treatment with OxPAPC, a TLR-2/4 inhibitor, while treatment with OxPAPC resulted in partially inhibited expression of IL-1\u03b2. Treatment with FSL-1 resulted in enhanced phosphorylation of Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinases and activation of protein kinase C. Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors, including SB202190, SP6001250, U0126, Akt inhibitor IV, LY294002, GF109203X, and RO318220 resulted in significantly attenuated FSL-1-mediated upregulation of CCL2 and IL-1\u03b2. Our results indicate that activation of TLR6 will trigger inflammatory responses by upregulating expression of CCL2 and IL-1\u03b2 via TLR-2/4, protein kinase C, PI3K-Akt, and mitogen-activated protein kinases.",

    "abstract": "Brain atrophy studies often use FSL-BET (Brain Extraction Tool) as the first step of image processing. Default BET does not always give satisfactory results on 3DT1 MR images, which negatively impacts atrophy measurements. Finding the right alternative BET settings can be a difficult and time-consuming task, which can introduce unwanted variability.\nTo systematically analyze the performance of BET in images of MS patients by varying its parameters and options combinations, and quantitatively comparing its results to a manual gold standard.\nImages from 159 MS patients were selected from different MAGNIMS consortium centers, and 16 different 3DT1 acquisition protocols at 1.5 T or 3T. Before running BET, one of three pre-processing pipelines was applied: (1) no pre-processing, (2) removal of neck slices, or (3) additional N3 inhomogeneity correction. Then BET was applied, systematically varying the fractional intensity threshold (the \"f\" parameter) and with either one of the main BET options (\"B\" - bias field correction and neck cleanup, \"R\" - robust brain center estimation, or \"S\" - eye and optic nerve cleanup) or none. For comparison, intracranial cavity masks were manually created for all image volumes. FSL-FAST (FMRIB's Automated Segmentation Tool) tissue-type segmentation was run on all BET output images and on the image volumes masked with the manual intracranial cavity masks (thus creating the gold-standard tissue masks). The resulting brain tissue masks were quantitatively compared to the gold standard using Dice overlap coefficient (DOC). Normalized brain volumes (NBV) were calculated with SIENAX. NBV values obtained using for SIENAX other BET settings than default were compared to gold standard NBV with the paired t-test.\nThe parameter/preprocessing/options combinations resulted in 20,988 BET runs. The median DOC for default BET (f=0.5, g=0) was 0.913 (range 0.321-0.977) across all 159 native scans. For all acquisition protocols, brain extraction was substantially improved for lower values of \"f\" than the default value. Using native images, optimum BET performance was observed for f=0.2 with option \"B\", giving median DOC=0.979 (range 0.867-0.994). Using neck removal before BET, optimum BET performance was observed for f=0.1 with option \"B\", giving median DOC 0.983 (range 0.844-0.996). Using the above BET-options for SIENAX instead of default, the NBV values obtained from images after neck removal with f=0.1 and option \"B\" did not differ statistically from NBV values obtained with gold-standard.\nAlthough default BET performs reasonably well on most 3DT1 images of MS patients, the performance can be improved substantially. The removal of the neck slices, either externally or within BET, has a marked positive effect on the brain extraction quality. BET option \"B\" with f=0.1 after removal of the neck slices seems to work best for all acquisition protocols.",

    "abstract": "The bacterial genus Listeria contains both saprotrophic and facultative pathogenic species. A small genome size has been suggested to be associated with the loss of pathogenic potential of L. welshimeri and L. seeligeri. In this paper we present data on the genome of L. monocytogenes strain FSL J1-208, a representative of phylogenetic lineage IV. Although this strain was isolated from a clinical case in a caprine host and has no decreased invasiveness in human intestinal epithelial cells, our analyses show that this strain has one of the smallest Listeria chromosomes reported to date (2.78 Mb). The chromosome contains 2,772 protein-coding genes, including well-characterized virulence-associated genes, such as inlA, inlB, and inlC and the full prfA gene cluster. The small genome size is mainly caused by the absence of prophages in the genome of L. monocytogenes FSL J1-208, and further analyses showed that the total size of prophage-related regions is highly correlated to chromosome size in the genus Listeria. L. monocytogenes FSL J1-208 carries a unique type of plasmid of approximately 80 kbp that does not carry genes annotated as being involved in resistance to antibiotics or heavy metals. The accessory genes in this plasmid belong to the internalin family, a family of virulence-associated proteins, and therefore this is the first report of a potential virulence plasmid in the genus Listeria.",

    "abstract": "FSL (the FMRIB Software Library) is a comprehensive library of analysis tools for functional, structural and diffusion MRI brain imaging data, written mainly by members of the Analysis Group, FMRIB, Oxford. For this NeuroImage special issue on \"20 years of fMRI\" we have been asked to write about the history, developments and current status of FSL. We also include some descriptions of parts of FSL that are not well covered in the existing literature. We hope that some of this content might be of interest to users of FSL, and also maybe to new research groups considering creating, releasing and supporting new software packages for brain image analysis.",

    "abstract": "The ability to modify/visualize biological surfaces, and then study the modified cell/virion in a range of in vitro and in vivo environments is essential to gaining further insight into the function of specific molecules or the entire entity. Studies of biological surface modification are generally limited to genetic engineering of the organism or the covalent attachment of chemical moieties to the cell surface(1,2). However these traditional techniques expose the cell to chemical reactants, or they require significant manipulation to achieve the desired outcome, making them cumbersome, and they may also inadvertently affect the viability/functionality of the modified cell. A simple method to harmlessly modify the surface of cells is required. Recently a new technology, KODE Technology has introduced a range of novel constructs consisting of three components: a functional head group (F), a spacer (S) and a lipid tail (L) and are known as Function-Spacer-Lipid or FSL constructs3. The spacer (S) is selected to provide a construct that is dispersible in water, yet will spontaneously and stably incorporate into a membrane. FSL construct functional moieties (F) so far include a range of saccharides including blood group-related determinants, sialic acids, hyaluronan polysaccharides, fluorophores, biotin, radiolabels, and a range of peptides(3-12). FSL constructs have been used in modifying embryos, spermatozoa, zebrafish, epithelial/endometrial cells, red blood cells, and virions to create quality controls systems and diagnostic panels, to modify cell adhesion/ interaction/ separation/ immobilization, and for in vitro and in vivo imaging of cells/virions(3-12). The process of modifying cells/virions is generic and extremely simple. The most common procedure is incubation of cells (in lipid free media) with a solution for FSL constructs for 1-2 hours at 37\u00b0C(4-10). During the incubation the FSL constructs spontaneously incorporate into the membrane, and the process is complete. Washing is optional. Cells modified by FSL constructs are known as kodecytes(6-9), while virions are kodevirions(10). FSL constructs as direct infusions and kodecytes/kodevirions have been used in experimental animal models(7,8,10). All kodecytes/kodevirions appear to retain their normal vitality and functionality while gaining the new function of the F moiety(7,8,10,11). The combination of dispersibility in biocompatible media, spontaneous incorporation into cell membranes, and apparent low toxicity, makes FSL constructs valuable research tools for the study of cells and virions.",

    "abstract": "TLR ligands as Th1 inducers have been investigated as potential anti-tumour agents. However, few attempts have been made to investigate the anti-tumour activity of TLR ligands as Th2 inducers. This study, therefore, was carried out to determine whether the TLR2 ligand FSL-1 as a Th2 inducers affects the growth of a QRsP tumour, a fibrosarcoma derived from the C57BL/6 (TLR2(+/+)) mouse in vivo. Tumour volumes in TLR2(+/+) mice immunized with both FSL-1 and tumour-associated antigens were significantly smaller than those in control mice. Immunization with both FSL-1 and tumour-associated antigens increased the survival rate of TLR2(+/+) mice. However, surprisingly, immunization with FSL-1 alone significantly enhanced the growth of tumour. Both anti- and pro-tumour activities of FSL-1 were not observed in TLR2(-/-) mice. Immunization of both FSL-1 and tumour-associated antigens induced tumour-associated antigen-specific cytolytic T cells, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity of natural killer cells by production of the tumour-specific antibodies, tumour lysis by complement activation and reduction of the number of regulatory T cells in the draining lymph node. Immunization with FSL-1 alone increased the number of regulatory T cells in the draining lymph node, and in vivo administration of anti-CD25 antibody into mice abrogated the pro-tumour activity of FSL-1, suggesting that regulatory T cells are involved in the pro-tumour activity. This study demonstrated that FSL-1 exhibited TLR2-mediated anti- and pro-tumour activities when immunized with and without tumour-associated antigens, respectively.",

    "abstract": "Medical imaging has been transformed by a move from qualitative to quantitative approaches where image processing is used to enhance visual information and image analysis is used to derive structural and functional measurements. The ideal quantitative analysis methods are automatic and require no user intervention, and so-called image analysis pipelines exist for some applications. However, in the majority of cases automatic methods seldom live up to their name, may fail when prior assumptions are not met, and may not exist at all for new applications. The identification and careful use of well-known image processing and analysis techniques is a vital part of imaging and invaluable when problems arise with automatic methods. Here a number of key image analysis tasks in brain imaging are presented with particular reference to the freely available FMRIB Software Library.",

    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) and diabetes mellitus type II (T2DM) are two of the major health challenges of our time. It has been shown that MDD and T2DM are highly co-morbid, and recent work has proposed a bi-directional connection between the diseases. The aim of the current study was to investigate the effect of a high-fat diet (HFD) on behavior and metabolism in a genetic rat model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive and Resistant Line (FSL/FRL) rats. Age and weight matched rats were fed a HFD or control diet for 10 weeks and subjected to behavioral testing and metabolic assessment. We found that HFD exacerbated the depressive-like behavior of the FSL rat in the Forced Swim Test (FST), a depression screening tool, although it did not affect the non-depressed FRL rat despite a higher caloric intake. Moreover, the depressive-like phenotype was associated with reduced anxiety and impairment in novel object recognition memory, while HFD consumption led to diminished object recognition memory as well. In both strains HFD increased insulin levels during an oral glucose tolerance test, although fasting blood glucose levels were only significantly increased by HFD in the FSL rat, suggesting a greater metabolic susceptibility in this rat strain. We conclude that compared with the FRL rat, the FSL rat is more susceptible to developing aberrant behaviors related to depression following metabolic stress induced by HFD. Further studies with a mechanistic focus could potentially lead to a better understanding of a possible pathophysiological link between T2DM and MDD.",

    "abstract": "Little is known of how Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands are processed after recognition by TLRs. This study was therefore designed to investigate how the TLR2 ligand FSL-1 is processed in macrophages after recognition by TLR2. FSL-1 was internalized into the murine macrophage cell line, RAW264.7. Both chlorpromazine and methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, which inhibit clathrin-dependent endocytosis, reduced FSL-1 uptake by RAW264.7 cells in a dose-dependent manner but nystatin, which inhibits caveolae- and lipid raft-dependent endocytosis, did not. FSL-1 was co-localized with clathrin but not with TLR2 in the cytosol of RAW264.7 cells. These results suggest that internalization of FSL-1 is clathrin dependent. In addition, FSL-1 was internalized by peritoneal macrophages from TLR2-deficient mice. FSL-1 was internalized by human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with CD14 or CD36 but not by the non-transfected cells. Also, knockdown of CD14 or CD36 in the transfectants reduced FSL-1 uptake. In this study, we suggest that (i) FSL-1 is internalized into macrophages via a clathrin-dependent endocytic pathway, (ii) the FSL-1 uptake by macrophages occurs irrespective of the presence of TLR2, and (iii) CD14 and CD36 are responsible for the internalization of FSL-1.",

    "abstract": "The 5-hydroxytryptamine system is thought to play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression and represents the target for selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) and Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats were bred from Sprague-Dawley (SPD) rats to produce strains with increased (FSL) or decreased (FRL) sensitivity to the cholinesterase inhibitor. The FSL rats have been identified as a good model of depression. Many studies in normal rats showed that chronic treatments with SSRIs reduce the densities of SERT. The objective of the present investigation was to assess the influence of chronic fluoxetine treatment on SERT density (Bmax; fmol/mg) in the FSL rat model of depression, relative to that in the FRL rats and SPD rats. FSL, FRL and SPD rats were randomly assigned into groups receiving the vehicle or 10 mg/kg of fluoxetine i.p. for 14 days. Binding was assessed by incubating the brain sections in a buffer containing 20 pM of [(125)I]-RTI-55 [[(125)I](-)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane and 200 nM of GBR12935 [1-(2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine]. The fluoxetine treatment reduced B(max) in all three rat strains when the saline and respective fluoxetine groups were compared (e.g., the FSL-SAL relative to FSL-FLX groups). Chronic fluoxetine treatment reduces the densities of SERT in the FSL rats to a larger extent than in the normal SPD control rats.",

    "abstract": "Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is a leading cause of genital ulceration that can predispose individuals to an increased risk of acquiring other sexually transmitted infections. There are no approved HSV-2 vaccines and current suppressive therapies require daily compound administration that does not prevent all recurrences. A promising experimental strategy is the use of toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists to induce an innate immune response that provides resistance to HSV-2 infection. Previous studies showed that anti-herpetic activity varied based on origin of the agonists and activation of different TLR indicating that activity likely occurs through elaboration of a specific innate immune response. To test the hypothesis, we evaluated the ability of a bacterial-derived TLR2/6 agonist (FSL-1) to increase resistance to experimental genital HSV-2 infection.\nVaginal application of FSL-1 at selected doses and times was evaluated to identify potential increased resistance to genital HSV-2 infection in the mouse model. The FSL-1 induced cytokine profile was quantified using kinetically collected vaginal lavages. Additionally, cytokine elaboration and organ weights were evaluated after single or multiple FSL-1 doses to establish a preliminary safety profile. Human vaginal EC cultures were used to confirm the mouse model outcomes.\nThe results showed that vaginally-applied FSL-1 created an environment resistant to a 25-fold higher HSV-2 challenge dose. Mechanistically, vaginal FSL-1 application led to transient elaboration of cytokines linked to anti-herpetic innate immune responses. No gross local or peripheral immunotoxicity was observed even after multiple dosing. FSL-1 also created an anti-herpetic environment in cultures of human vaginal epithelial cells (EC).\nThe results showed, for the first time, that the bacterial-derived TLR2/6 agonist FSL-1 induced significant resistance to HSV-2 infection when applied in mice or human vaginal EC cultures. Cytokine evaluation illustrated that anti-herpetic activity correlated with induction of a specific profile. The identified anti-herpetic profile provides an invaluable resource for the future design of novel compounds to reduce genital HSV-2 transmission and improves understanding of the complex innate immune response to potential pathogens elicited by the vaginal mucosa.",

    "abstract": "Stress engenders the precipitation and progression of affective disorders, while stress-related release of excitatory mediators is implicated in the degenerative pathology observed especially in the hippocampus of patients with severe depression. Nitric oxide (NO) release following stress-evoked N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation modulates neurotransmission, cellular memory and neuronal toxicity. We have investigated the Flinders rat (FSL/FRL), a genetic animal model of depression, regarding the response of the hippocampal nitrergic system following exposure to an escapable stress/inescapable stress (ES-IS) paradigm. Hippocampal tissue from naive FSL/FRL rats and those exposed to ES-IS were studied with respect to constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) activity and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) protein levels, as well as transcript expression of upstream regulatory proteins in the NMDA-NO signalling pathway, including NMDAR1, nNOS, CAPON, PIN and PSD95. Within stress-naive animals, no differences in hippocampal cNOS activity and nNOS expression or PIN were evident in FSL and FRL rats, although transcripts for NMDAR1 and CAPON were increased in FSL rats. Within the group of ES-IS animals, we found an increase in total hippocampal cNOS activity, nNOS protein levels and mRNA expression in FSL vs. FRL rats, together with an increase in PSD95 transcripts, and a reduction in PIN. In conclusion, ES-IS enhanced hippocampal cNOS activity in FSL rats, but not FRL rats, confirming the NMDA-NO cascade as an important vulnerability factor in the depressive phenotype of the FSL rat.",

    "abstract": "Tensor analysis of diffusion weighted magnetic resonance images is increasingly used for non-invasive tracking of nerve fibers in the human brain. Diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) enables in-vivo research on the internal structure of the central nervous system, encompassing interconnection of functional areas, correlation between fiber deformations and certain disease patterns, as well as brain tumor localization. But the modeling of the local diffusion parameters is a computationally expensive part of the processing pipeline, resulting to run times up to days on standard desktop computers. A grid implementation of the algorithm with slice based parallelization reduces the processing down to 10% compared to a local cluster and 20% compared to sequential processing on the grid. A workflow implementation enables fault-tolerant handling of temporary failures within the grid. Furthermore, pure web-based access to the grid application allows for collaborative utilization even from protected infrastructures, as they are typically found in clinical environments.",

    "abstract": "Typically in neuroimaging we are looking to extract some pertinent information from imperfect, noisy images of the brain. This might be the inference of percent changes in blood flow in perfusion FMRI data, segmentation of subcortical structures from structural MRI, or inference of the probability of an anatomical connection between an area of cortex and a subthalamic nucleus using diffusion MRI. In this article we will describe how Bayesian techniques have made a significant impact in tackling problems such as these, particularly in regards to the analysis tools in the FMRIB Software Library (FSL). We shall see how Bayes provides a framework within which we can attempt to infer on models of neuroimaging data, while allowing us to incorporate our prior belief about the brain and the neuroimaging equipment in the form of biophysically informed or regularising priors. It allows us to extract probabilistic information from the data, and to probabilistically combine information from multiple modalities. Bayes can also be used to not only compare and select between models of different complexity, but also to infer on data using committees of models. Finally, we mention some analysis scenarios where Bayesian methods are impractical, and briefly discuss some practical approaches that we have taken in these cases.",

    "abstract": "In this study, we measured the effect of an acute treatment of citalopram on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) synthesis in a genetic rat model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats, their counterparts, the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats, and outbred Sprague-Dawley (SPD) rats, using the alpha-[(14)C]methyl-l-tryptophan (alpha-MTrp) autoradiographic method. A comparison of 5-HT synthesis in the FSL rats treated with citalopram (FSL-CTP) and those treated with saline (FSL-SAL) indicate that citalopram reduces global 5-HT synthesis in the FSL rats, as well as in all the brain areas investigated. The reduced synthesis was also observed in the dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus and the median raphe (MR) nucleus. The comparison of the synthesis between the citalopram-treated SPD rats (SPD-CTP) and the saline-treated SPD rats (SPD-SAL) revealed a global increase of 5-HT synthesis in the SPD-CTP group, as well as an increase in some terminal areas, but a reduction in the DR and the MR. In contrast to the reduction throughout the brain in the FSL rats, the FRL rats treated with citalopram (FRL-CTP), when compared to the saline group (FRL-SAL), showed a global increase of 5-HT synthesis, as well as in most of the terminal areas and in the DR and the MR. The reduction of 5-HT synthesis throughout the brain in the FSL rats is likely, in part, a result of reported supersensitivity of the 5-HT(1A) receptors. Comparing changes in the SPD, FRL, and FSL rats treated with citalopram to their respective controls (saline-treated rats), the FSL rats treated acutely with citalopram were the only rats that exhibited lower 5-HT synthesis rates in all of the limbic areas, the basal ganglia, and the neocortices. This may be related to the pathophysiological basis of depressive characteristics in FSL rats. The citalopram treatment produced unexpected results in the FRL rats: 5-HT synthesis was elevated not only in most of the terminal areas, but also in the cell body areas, the DR and MR. The increase of 5-HT synthesis throughout the brain in the FRL rats is likely, in part, a result of the reported subsensitivity of the 5-HT(1A) receptors, and possibly other sites through which 5-HT synthesis could be controlled (e.g., 5-HT(1B)). In addition differences in intracellular signaling could be at least in part responsible for these differences.",

    "abstract": "A significant amount of evidence has been accumulated to show that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) function as sensors for microbial invasion. However, little is known about how signalling triggered by TLRs leads to the phagocytosis of pathogens. This study was designed to determine whether stimulation of TLR2 mainly with the lipopeptide FSL-1 plays a role in the phagocytosis of pathogens by macrophages. FSL-1 enhanced the phagocytosis of Escherichia coli to a markedly greater extent than it did that of Staphylococcus aureus, but did not enhance the phagocytosis of latex beads. FSL-1 stimulation resulted in enhanced phagocytosis of bacteria by macrophages from TLR2(+/+) mice but not by those from TLR2(-/-) mice. Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing TLR2 failed to phagocytose these bacteria, but the cells expressing CD14 did. FSL-1 induced upregulation of the expression of phagocytic receptors, including MSR1, CD36, DC-SIGN and Dectin-1 in THP-1 cells. Human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with DC-SIGN and MSR1 phagocytosed these bacteria. These results suggest that the FSL-1-induced enhancement of phagocytosis of bacteria by macrophages may be explained partly by the upregulation of scavenger receptors and the C-type lectins through TLR2-mediated signalling pathways, and that TLR2 by itself does not function as a phagocytic receptor.",

    "abstract": "The diacylated lipopeptide FSL-1 enhanced the generation of IgG antibodies in TLR2(+/+) mice, but not in TLR2(-/-) mice, when administered together with hen egg lysozyme as an antigen. Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide enhanced the generation of antigen-specific antibodies in both TLR2(-/-) and TLR2(+/+) mice. In TLR2(+/+) mice, the level of enhancement due to FSL-1 was similar to that caused by lipopolysaccharide. Analysis of the IgG antibodies subclass demonstrated that the level of Th2-type IgG1 antibodies was higher than that of Th1-type IgG2a antibodies. Both FSL-1 and lipopolysaccharide induced production of IL-10 and IL-6 by splenocytes from TLR2(+/+) mice. Lipopolysaccharide also induced production of these cytokines by splenocytes from TLR2(-/-) mice, but FSL-1 did not. Neither FSL-1 nor lipopolysaccharide induced IL-12p70 production by splenocytes from either type of mice. FSL-1 upregulated B7.2 expression in B220(+) cells from TLR2(+/+) mice but not those from TLR2(-/-) mice, whereas lipopolysaccharide upregulated B7.2 expression in B220(+) cells from both types of mice. FSL-1 and, to a lesser extent, lipopolysaccharide activated mitogen-activated protein kinases in splenocytes. FSL-1 and, to a lesser extent, lipopolysaccharide induced the expression of c-Fos, which is known to be involved in Th2-type responses, in splenocytes. Thus, this study demonstrated that FSL-1 possessed TLR2-mediated Th2-type responses in vivo.",

    "abstract": "This article presents results obtained from applying various tools from FSL (FMRIB Software Library) to data from the repetition priming experiment used for the HBM'05 Functional Image Analysis Contest. We present analyses from the model-based General Linear Model (GLM) tool (FEAT) and from the model-free independent component analysis tool (MELODIC). We also discuss the application of tools for the correction of image distortions prior to the statistical analysis and the utility of recent advances in functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) time series modeling and inference such as the use of optimal constrained HRF basis function modeling and mixture modeling inference. The combination of hemodynamic response function (HRF) and mixture modeling, in particular, revealed that both sentence content and speaker voice priming effects occurred bilaterally along the length of the superior temporal sulcus (STS). These results suggest that both are processed in a single underlying system without any significant asymmetries for content vs. voice processing.",

    "abstract": "Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-differentiated bone marrow-derived dendritic cells were stimulated with the synthetic lipopeptide S-(2,3-bispalmitoyloxypropyl)-CGDPKHSPKSF (FSL-1) or the Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide. FSL-1 induced the production of TNF-alpha and IL-12 by C57BL/6-derived bone marrow-derived dendritic cells but not by bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from Toll-like receptor 2-deficient (TLR2(-/-)) mice. Lipopolysaccharide induced the production of TNF-alpha and IL-12 by bone marrow-derived dendritic cells derived from either type of mice. FSL-1 did not induce production of IL-10 by bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from either type of mice, whereas lipopolysaccharide induced small amounts of IL-10 by bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from both types of mice. The upregulation by FSL-1 of the expression of CD80, CD86 and the MHC class II molecule IA(b) was dose- and time-dependent on the surfaces of C57BL/6-derived bone marrow-derived dendritic cells but not on the surface of TLR2(-/-)-derived bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. Lipopolysaccharide upregulated the expression of these molecules on the surfaces of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from both types of mice. The expression of CD11c on the surfaces of C57BL/6-derived bone marrow-derived dendritic cells was upregulated by stimulation with both FSL-1 and lipopolysaccharide up to 12 h; thereafter, the expression was downregulated. The results suggest that FSL-1 can accelerate maturation of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and this FSL-1 activity is mediated by TLR2.",

    "abstract": "Animal models have been used in understanding the neuro-biological basis of depression and predicting successful treatment strategies. The current study focused on two genetic models of depression, the Flinder's Sensitive Line (FSL) and Wister-Kyoto (WKY). Our laboratory showed depressive symptomatology in pre-pubertal WKY and FSL rats, and the current study focused on the strains' anxiety-like traits. Since human depression-anxiety comorbidity is very common at young ages, it is essential to establish whether FSL and WKY pre-pubertal rats also exhibit such comorbidity. In addition, the effect of different rearing environments was studied using a mild chronic-stress condition (limiting available bedding between post-natal days 2-9). Two well-validated tests of anxiety, the open-field and elevated plus-maze, were used on 40-day-old pups. FSL pups exhibited lower anxiety-like behavior when compared to controls, in traditional open-field and plus-maze measures. A different pattern was observed in the WKY strain, which exhibited heightened anxiety-like behaviours in the FSL strain and affecting WKY's body-weight. Overall, the findings indicate differential expression of anxiety in pre-pubertal rats belonging to the 'depressed' strains, suggesting that these strains may be suitable for modelling different sub-groups of depression at young ages.",

    "abstract": "Macrophage-activating lipopeptide-2 (MALP-2) from Mycoplasma fermentans has been identified as a pathogen-associated molecular pattern of Mycoplasmas that causes activation of the innate immune system through the activation of the heterodimeric Toll-like receptors (TLRs)-2 and -6. The aim of this study was to characterize the ability of MALP-2 and a synthetic analog fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide-1 (FSL-1; represents the NH2-terminal sequence of a lipoprotein from M. salivarium) to act as exogenous pyrogens, to induce formation of cytokines (endogenous pyrogens), and to cause sickness behavior, such as depressed motor activity, anorexia, and adipsia. For this purpose, body temperature, activity, food intake, and water intake were recorded for 3 days by use of telemetry devices in several groups of rats treated with MALP-2/FSL-1 or the respective control solutions. Intraperitoneal injections of FSL-1 caused fever at doses of 10 or 100 microg/kg, which was preceded by a pronounced phase of hypothermia in response to a dose of 1,000 microg/kg. The maximal fever (a peak of 1.5 degrees C above baseline) was caused by the 100 microg/kg dose with almost identical responses to both MALP-2 and FSL-1. Fever was accompanied by pronounced rises of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF and IL-6 in plasma. Treatment with the TLR-2 and -6 agonists further induced a dose-dependent manifestation of anorexia and adipsia, as well as a reduction of motor activity. We could thus demonstrate that activation of TLR-2 and -6 can induce systemic inflammation in rats accompanied by the classical signs of brain-controlled illness responses.",

    "abstract": "The techniques available for the interrogation and analysis of neuroimaging data have a large influence in determining the flexibility, sensitivity, and scope of neuroimaging experiments. The development of such methodologies has allowed investigators to address scientific questions that could not previously be answered and, as such, has become an important research area in its own right. In this paper, we present a review of the research carried out by the Analysis Group at the Oxford Centre for Functional MRI of the Brain (FMRIB). This research has focussed on the development of new methodologies for the analysis of both structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging data. The majority of the research laid out in this paper has been implemented as freely available software tools within FMRIB's Software Library (FSL).",

    "abstract": "Final Syllable Lengthening (FSL) has been extensively examined in infant vocalizations in order to determine whether its basis is biological or learned. Findings suggest there may be a U-shaped developmental trajectory for FSL. The present study sought to verify this pattern and to determine whether vocal maturity and deafness influence FSL. Eight normally hearing infants, aged 0;3 to 1;0, and eight deaf infants, aged 0;8 to 4;0, were examined at three levels of prelinguistic vocal development: precanonical, canonical, and postcanonical. FSL was found at all three levels suggesting a biological basis for this phenomenon. Individual variability was, however, considerable. Reduction in the magnitude of FSL across the three sessions provided some support for a downward trend for FSL in infancy. Findings further indicated that auditory deprivation can significantly affect temporal aspects of infant speech production.",

    "abstract": "Lipoproteins derived from Mycoplasma salivarium and a synthetic lipopeptide (FSL-1) activate human gingival fibroblasts to induce IL-6 production and ICAM-1 expression. Human gingival fibroblasts were treated with lipoproteins or FSL-1 and then examined for the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), ERK1/2, p38, and SAPK/JNK, and transcription factors, AP-1 and NF-kappaB. Western blotting indicated that p38 and SAPK/JNK were activated in response to the stimulators, but the activation of ERK1/2 could not be discriminated because ERK1/2 was activated in the absence of stimulators. The p38 inhibitor SB 203580 also suppressed their IL-6 production-inducing activities, whereas the ERK1/2-activating MAPK kinase (MEK1) inhibitor PD 98059 did not suppress their activities. Moreover, they were capable of inducing the activation of AP-1 and NF-KB. NF-kappaB activation was also confirmed by the phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha. On the basis of these results, it was concluded that lipoproteins of M. salivarium and FSL-1 are capable of activating the MAPKs p38 and SAPK/JNK and the transcriptional factors AP-1 and NF-kappaB in human gingival fibroblasts.",

    "abstract": "Rats of Flinders Sensitive (FSL) and Flinders Resistant lines (FRL) differ in their susceptibility to physiological and associated behavioral responses elicited by nicotine. In the present study, we measured dopamine (DA) content in striatal dialysates to investigate the sensitivity of FSL and FRL rats to nicotine delivered locally through a microdialysis probe placed in the striatum. We also measured the expression density of striatal high-affinity nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), and that of mRNAs encoding for alpha3, alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 nAChR subunits in both lines. The DA content of dialysates was measured before and after a 1-min perfusion of nicotine (6, 10 or 20 nmoles/min) and the resulting DA increase was taken as a measure of the alkaloid's intrinsic activity for nAChRs involved in the release of DA. The nicotine-induced increase of striatal DA release was greater in FSL than in FRL rats for all concentrations of nicotine, suggesting that the intrinsic activity of nicotine was greater in the FSL than in the FRL rats. This was further supported by our finding that the density of high-affinity nAChRs in the striatum of FSL rats was 44% greater than in the FRL rats, whereas affinity (K(D)) was virtually the same in the two lines of rats. Also the expression of mRNAs encoding for alpha(4), alpha(7), and beta(2) subunits in the striatum was greater in FSL than in FRL rats (attomol/microg total RNA, alpha(4):98+/-10 vs. 77+/-7; alpha(7):279+/-16 vs. 184+/-16; beta(2):310+/-19 vs. 201+/-12). We hypothesize that the difference in nicotine-induced DA release in the striatum of FSL and FRL rats depends on the difference in nAChR subunit expression in the striatum between the two lines. The Flinders rats could be used as a model for nicotine self-administration studies to evaluate the susceptibilities of FSL and FRL rats to nicotine dependence.",

    "abstract": "Antidepressant effects of acute or chronic nicotine treatments in swim test immobility of Flinders sensitive line (FSL) rats, an animal model of depression, were recently demonstrated (Tizabi et al. Psychopharmacology 142:193, 1999). In the present study we sought to determine whether the antidepressant effects of nicotine could be blocked by the nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine (MEC). Moreover, the effects of chronic nicotine treatment on [3H]cytisine binding in discrete brain regions of FSL and their control Flinders resistant line (FRL) rats were also evaluated. Adult male FSL rats were treated with MEC (0.5 mg/kg) 20 min prior to an acute or chronic nicotine administration. MEC by itself did not affect the immobility in swim test. However, it completely blocked the acute or chronic nicotine effects. Daily nicotine injection (0.4 mg/kg/day for 14 days) resulted in an increase in [3H]cytisine binding primarily in the FRL rats. An increase in nicotinic receptor binding following chronic nicotine administration is believed to reflect desensitization of these receptors. These findings, coupled with previous observation of higher basal nicotinic receptors in FSL rats, further support the involvement of central nicotinic receptors in depressive characteristics of these rats. Moreover, the data suggest therapeutic potential for selective nicotinic receptor agonists in depressive disorders.",

    "abstract": "We present a two centre study designed to assess the sensitivity of Actin FS and Actin FSL to deficiencies of factor VIII, IX, XI or XII. The study was undertaken at two centres to avoid bias due to the investigations being undertaken on one analyser. Samples from patients with a factor VIII (n = 36, F VIII = < 1.0-50 iu/dl), factor IX (n = 22, F IX = 2-48 iu/dl), factor XI (n = 23, F XI = 5-50 u/dl) or a factor XII (n = 18, F XII = 1-50 u/dl) deficient state were studied. Activated partial thromboplastin times (APTT) were determined using two batches of Actin FS and of Actin FSL; comparison of APTT results between centres was facilitated by the conversion of clotting times to ratios (test divided by geometric mean normal clotting time). APTT ratios were considered to be elevated if greater than two standard deviations above the mean normal. The factor deficient status of each sample was verified by assaying all samples for factors VIII, IX, XI and XII. Clotting factor assays were performed on a Sysmex CA-1000 fitted with research software, which permitted the auto-dilution and testing of three serial dilution of both a reference preparation and each patient's sample. Assay results were calculated using parallel-line Bioassay principles. This procedure allowed for variation in clotting times due to the effect of temporal drift of any of the reagents within the assay system. Actin FS and Actin FSL demonstrate acceptable sensitivity to factor VIII deficiency, however, both reagents failed to detect a large proportion of factor XI (17.4% and 30.4% of samples, respectively) and factor XII (66.7% and 72.2%, respectively) deficiencies. The detection rate with Actin FSL for factor IX deficiency was also poor (36.4% not detected). As factor IX and XI deficiencies are both associated with haemorrhagic disorders, the inability of these reagents to detect such abnormalities gave cause for concern.",

    "abstract": "A filamentous bacteriophage from Vibrio cholerae O139 strain A1-4450 was isolated (fsl). The phage fsl had a ssDNA genome and dsDNA as a replicative form (RF) in lysogenic host cell. The DNA sequence of fsl RF was determined. It consisted of 6340 bp and had a G + C content of 43.5%. Fifteen possible ORFs were found in fsl. One of them, ORF384, was estimated to encode 384 amino acid residues (44.6 kDa) and had homologous regions with the zot gene of V. cholerae and gene I of the coliphage group. ORF104, located upstream of ORF384, was homologous to gene 93 protein of Pf3 (filamentous phage of Pseudomonas sp.) corresponding to gene VI of coliphage. Other than ORF384 and ORF104, the ORF81, ORF44, ORF29, and ORF193 were speculated to correspond to gene V, gene VII, gene IX, and gene III, respectively, in the order as reported on f1 phage.",

